Thanos doc (#1184)
scylladb/scylla-monitoring: docs/source/thanos.rst

> Using Thanos With Scylla Monitoring
> ============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Thanos With Scylla Monitoring
===================================
```

Scylla-Monitoring uses `Prometheus <https://prometheus.io/>`_ for metrics collection, which works out-of-the-box, but Prometheus does have limitations.

> `Thanos <https://thanos.io/>`_  is an opensource solution on top of Prometheus with multiple functionalities it can:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Thanos <https://thanos.io/>`_  is an opensource solution which when used on top of Prometheus, provides additiuonal functionalities such as:
```

> 1. Support high-availability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* High-availability
```

> 2. Support horizontal scaling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Horizontal scaling
```

> 3. Support backup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Backup
```

> A nice thing with Thanos approach is its flexibility, you can use some of its functionality depends on your need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The benefit is that with Thanos' flexible design you can use some or all of these features depending on your requirements.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the rest of this guide we will learn how to deploy a Thanos cluster as a HA back-end for Grafana in Scylla Monitoring Stack
```

Reviewer: I assume this is indeed the scope. Nothing in the page explain what is the goal here.

Author: I'll make it clearer, there are multiple reasons to use Thanos, this guide explains how to use Thanos as a data source instead of prometheus

Using Thanos As a Prometheus Aggregator
----------------------------------------------------------

> There are a few reasons why you would need multiple Prometheus servers: if the total number of your time series reaches millions you can reach the limit of a single Prometheus server capacity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a few reasons why you would need multiple Prometheus servers. For example, if the total number of your time series reaches millions you can reach the limit of a single Prometheus server's capacity.
```

Reviewer 2: if the total number of your time series  - should be clarified. total number of WHAT exactly? and millions per what - second? 
If I am understanding here -
If the total number of transactions in your time series database reaches millions per second, you can easily reach the Prometheus server's capacity to display the metrics for this database.

> Sometimes it is also useful to limit the traffic between data centers, so you can have a Prometheus server per DC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addtion, it may also be useful to limit the traffic between data centers. You can do this by having a dedicated Prometheus server per DC.
```

Prometheus Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
We will assume you have two Prometheus servers running.

1. If you are running Prometheus using a container, you should use an **external** data directory, make sure it is reachable by other containers.
2. You will need to add the `--web.enable-lifecycle` flag to your Prometheus command-line option.

Thanos sidecar
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Thanos sidecar is an agent that read from a local Prometheus. Thanos uses a single docker container for different uses, the container would act

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Thanos sidecar is an agent that read from a local Prometheus. Thanos uses a single Docker container for different uses, the container would act
```

> differently based on the command line it gets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
differently based on the parameters it receives.
```

You will need a sidecar for each of your Prometheus servers.

> A docker command looks like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the following Docker command:
```

Reviewer 2: do you run it as is, or change it to your own configuration?

.. code-block:: shell

   docker run -d \
    -v /path/to/prom/dir:/data/prom:z \
    -i --name sidecar thanosio/thanos \
    sidecar \
    --grpc-address=0.0.0.0:10911 \
    --grpc-grace-period=1s \
    --http-address=0.0.0.0:10912 \
    --http-grace-period=1s \
    --prometheus.url=http://prometheus-ip:9090 \
    --tsdb.path=/data/prom \
    -p 10912:10912 \
    -p 10911:10911

> After you run the sidecar you should be able to reach it from your browser at: http://{ip}:10912

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you launch the sidecar you should be able to reach it from your browser at: http://{ip}:10912
```

Thanos query
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Thanos query is the aggregator, it expose a Prometheus like API and read from multiple thanos stores (in this case the Thanos stores are the sidecars).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanos query is the aggregator, it exposes a Prometheus-like API and reads from multiple Thanos stores (in this case the Thanos stores are the sidecars).
```

> You run thanos query together with Scylla monitoring. Assuming that you have two sidecars running on IP addresses: `ip1` and `ip2`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You run a Thanos query together with Scylla Monitoring. Assuming that you have two sidecars running on IP addresses: `ip1` and `ip2`,
```

Author: thanos query is a name

> you can start it like that: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start the containers by running: 
```

.. code-block:: shell

   docker run -d \
    --name thanos -- thanosio/thanos \
      query \
      --debug.name=query0 \
      --log.level=debug \
      --grpc-address=0.0.0.0:10903 \
      --grpc-grace-period=1s \
      --http-address=0.0.0.0:10904 \
      --http-grace-period=1s \
      --query.replica-label=prometheus \
      --store={ip1}:10911 --store={ip2}:10911

> After you run Thanos query, you can connect to its http server, in the above example at http://{ip}:10903

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you run a Thanos query, you can connect to its HTTP server, in the above example at HTTP://{ip}:10903
```

Author: you don't capitalize an http url

Update Scylla Data source
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Last you need to update the Grafana data source to read from the local Thanos instead of from Prometheus. Edit grafana/datasource.yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last step is to update the Grafana data source to read from the local Thanos instead of from Prometheus. Edit grafana/datasource.yml
```

and replace DB_ADDRESS with {ip}:10903 (The IP address could be of the container as long as it is reachable).

The file you edit is a template file that replaces the file Grafana uses, next time you start.

> Restart the monitoring stack it should now uses Thanos 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Restart the Scylla Monitoring stack it should now use Thanos 
```

* High-availability.
* Horizontal scaling.
* Backup.

The benefit is that with Thanos' flexible design you can use some or all of these features depending on your requirements.

The rest of this document describes how to place Thanos in front of a multiple Prometheus servers and act as a Grafana datasource instead of Prometheus.
   

Using Thanos As a Prometheus Aggregator
---------------------------------------
There are a few reasons why you would need multiple Prometheus servers: if the total number of your time series reaches millions you can reach the limit of a single Prometheus server capacity.
Sometimes it is also useful to limit the traffic between data centers, so you can have a Prometheus server per DC.

Prometheus Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
We will assume you have two Prometheus servers running.

1. If you are running Prometheus using a container, you should use an **external** data directory, make sure it is reachable by other containers.
2. You will need to add the `--web.enable-lifecycle` flag to your Prometheus command-line option.

Thanos sidecar

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: Thanos side car illustration 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/170200/103104916-0076e380-4633-11eb-87dd-7ca6e082c4bd.png)

Author: I thought that adding an illustration can make it clearer, I'll use that
